Duvall House
815 Milwaukee St.
1881

The Duvall House was the first mansion built in this prestigious neighborhood and
was the only house built in the Italianate style of architecture. The two-story
cream brick house has a low-pitched hip roof punctuated by gables. The wide
overhanging eaves are decorated with a wooden frieze, paired brackets, and
modillions. Projecting from the roof are two massive chimneys decorated with brick
corbelling.

Openings of the building are primarily tall single light double-hung sashes
decorated with stepped brick basket handle-arched hoodmolds with keystones. Some of
the windows are grouped in twos along the walls. Pairs of round arched sashes
decorated with stepped round-arched brick hoodmolds sit in the two-story gable
projections on the front and south side walls. There are two one-story octagonal
bays projecting from the house. They have flat roofs with wide overhanging eaves
decorated with a frieze and paired brackets and openings of single-light, doublehung
sashes decorated with segmental arches.

The main entrance consists of double wood paneled doors and is decorated with a
segmentally-arched transom and a brick hoodmold. A modern brick front porch with a
plain balustrade and square posts probably replaced the original sometime in the
twentieth century. A sun room projects from the south wall. It is constructed like
the front porch and is enclosed with early twentieth century style sash windows.
This sun room probably covers an original side entrance.

In February of 1881, the Kewaunee Enterprise reported that someone purchased Joseph
Duvall's house on Harrison Street, and that Duvall would build a "fine brick
residence on the hill on Milwaukee Street." By June of 1881, the newspaper reported
that masons were constructing the walls of Duvall's new residence, and reported that
the building would be 3^ by 38 feet in length, two stories in height, and the
kitchen wing would measure 20 by 24 feet. In the October 21st issue of the paper,
they reported that Duvall had moved into his new house.

Joseph Duvall was an important pioneer in the development of Kewaunee and Kewaunee
County. He came from Canada in 1852, and early in his career, he was a foreman for
timber crews in the firm owned by another prominent man in Kewaunee, George Grimmer.
He soon joined this firm as a partner, and when it dissolved, he took over the
company's store, building it into a large enterprise. Duvall also operated a grain
elevator, ran a shipping line on Lake Michigan, and had other local business
interests. Joseph Duvall, along with his first and second wives, lived in this
house until he died in 1912. In that year, his son, George Duvall, moved his family
into the mansion on Milwaukee Street.

George Duvall had as broad-ranging business interests as his father. He continued
operating his father's grain company and store, and the Duvall Farm Company, a
corporate farm. He was also a director in several other Kewaunee businesses.
George Duvall continued to own this house until the 1940s.




1102 Dodge St.
Louis & Amelia Bruemmer House
1885

The Bruemmer House is a one-and-a-half story Second Empire style house of frame
construction. It features the style's trademark mansard roof that is shingled in a
decorative diamond pattern. Projecting from this roof are simple gable-roofed
dormers filled with four-over-four-light sashes. Under the roof eaves is a frieze
decorated with diamonds and brackets.

The windows of the first floor are single-light double-hung sashes decorated with
simple cornice moldings. A wrap-around veranda spans the front and much of the side
of the house. It was probably a turn of the century addition to the building and it
features simple Tuscan columns and a plain post balustrade. The main entrance is a
six-panel wooden door flanked by sidelights.

Louis Bruemmer was a native of Germany and came to Wisconsin in 1854 with his
family. He briefly attended a Milwaukee academy and was a teacher before he joined
the Union cause in the Civil War. He was wounded in 1862 and discharged in 1863.
When he came back to Wisconsin, he taught school, and became a local politician in
Mishicott. He came to Kewaunee County in 1867, operated several small businesses,
and entered Kewaunee County politics. He came to the city of Kewaunee in 1884 where
he became the Cashier of the Exchange Bank, later the State Bank of Kewaunee. He
also served the community as its Mayor. He erected this house for his family
shortly after arriving in the city and lived here until his death around 1904.
Amelia Bruemmer lived on in the house until around 1920.



821 Dodge St.
George & Bertha Grimmer House
1883
Architect: Henry C. Koch

The second mansion to be built in the Marquette Historic District was the Grimmer
house, a Queen Anne design by noted Milwaukee architect, Henry C. Koch. The Grimmer
house is a two and one-half story frame structure with a complex gable roofline and
hip and gable-roofed dormers and projections. Projecting from the roofline are two
massive brick corbelled chimneys. Sitting on a fine cut stone foundation the house
is covered with clapboards, but there are scalloped shingles covering most of the
attic story. The house also features many horizontal and vertical boards placed on
the house in a manner that suggests the Stick style.

Most of the windows on the house are tall, narrow, single-light double-hung sashes,
many grouped in pairs. Some of the windows in the attic story have multiple lights,
and the house has some stained glass, as well.

A two-story porch covers the front entrance of two paneled wood doors. The porch
has spool-and-spindle balustrades, thin posts, paneled friezes decorated with
medallions, and segmentally-arched openings. On the lower floor the frieze is
topped with a prominent cornice, while on the upper floor the frieze is decorated
with dentils. The porch base has circular cut-outs. Along the south wall toward
the rear of the house is a one-story shed-roofed entry porch that is decorated in
the same manner as the front porch. A small sun room is at the southeast corner of
the house. It features a mansard roof, denticulated frieze with medallions, and
tall, multi-light windows with transoms.

George Grimmer was born in Canada and came to the Shawano area in 1850 with the rest
of his family. He came to Kewaunee in 1853 and worked in the lumber industry until
1862, when he helped form the lumbering firm of Slauson, Grimmer & Co. The firm
operated until 1877, and the profits helped Grimmer invest in other businesses and
in real estate, becoming one of the most prominent businessmen of the area. He was
also involved in politics, both at the local and state level. He served in a number
of local elective offices, and in 1876 he ran and won an office in the Wisconsin
State Senate. He died in 1907.

In 1882, Grimmer left Kewaunee to live in Manitowoc, but by January of 1883,
rumors spread that he and his family were returning. In April of 1883, the Kewaunee
Enterprise announced that the Grimmers were coming back to Kewaunee, and that
Grimmer had purchased several lots near the schoolhouse and would be building a new
house there. The paper stated that Grimmer was going to Milwaukee to arrange for
the services of an architect for this new house.

In June of 1883, the paper reported that work had begun on this house. From H.
C. Koch's plans, the firm of H. Tisch and Theo. Ball were laying the foundation and
erecting the frame under the supervision of carpenter Charles Krause. It was
reported that the house would cost $10,000. By November of 1883, it was reported
that the Grimmer's new house was nearly completed and at the end of the month,
Grimmer and his family would be moving back to the city. Grimmer owned the house
until his death in 1907 and Mrs. Bertha Grimmer remained the owner until 1922.



822 Dodge St.
Michael & Mattie McMahon House
1888

On a smaller scale is the Queen Anne style McMahon house. This two-story frame
house has an intersecting gable roofline, clapboard siding, and vertical and
horizontal boards applied to the walls in a manner suggesting the Stick style. The
gable peaks, feature applied boards in a V pattern. Windows of the house are largely
tall, single-light, double-hung sashes, some grouped in pairs. The canted main
entrance at the southwest corner of the house is covered by a small porch. It
features thin posts, brackets, and a frieze in a cut-out pattern.

Michael McMahon was the long-time superintendent of Kewaunee schools. He was a
native of Chicago, but spent his childhood on a Manitowoc County farm. He received
a two-year teaching certificate at the Oshkosh State Normal School (today, the
University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh). In 1874, he became the head of Kewaunee schools,
and but for a brief four-year period, worked his entire professional career there.
He eventually completed bachelor's and master's degrees, as well. He died in 1927,
and is memorialized on the old school bell in front of the Marquette School in this
district.



324 Center St.
John & Laura Haney House
1889

This two-story frame Queen Anne house has an intersecting gable roof and a square
corner tower with a pyramid roof rising from the northeast corner of the house. The
house is covered with clapboards and there are octagonal shingles in the gable
peaks. Windows are almost all tall and narrow openings filled with a multi-light
upper sash and a single light lower sash. The windows are primarily grouped in twos
or threes and decorated with heavy cornice lintels. Several windows have pedimented
hoods. Much of the front veranda has now been enclosed and it is topped with a
spool and spindle balustrade. A side entrance is covered by a hip roof supported by
a square post.

John L. Haney was a native New Yorker who came to Kewaunee County as a boy. He
spent a year at a Green Bay business college, then taught at a rural Kewaunee County
school. In 1879, he and his brother began a business in the city of Kewaunee
selling agricultural implements. The Haney Brothers expanded their successful
business to Ahnapee, in Kewaunee County, and to Sturgeon Bay, in Door County. In
1889, Haney married Laura Grimmer, daughter of prominent citizen George Grimmer and
they soon took up residence in this house. After Haney's death, Laura Haney
retained ownership of the house until the 1940s.



222 Dorelle St.
John & Catherine Wattawa House
1894

This two-story Queen Anne house was built at the height of the style's popularity.
It features a gable and jerkinhead roof and a large brick corbelled chimney that
projects from the center of the house. The house has clapboard siding, a belt
course of wavy shingles framed by horizontal boards, and scalloped shingles in the
gable peaks. Scalloped shingles also cover the tent-roofed tower that projects from
the northwest corner of the house. The bargeboard on the gables is decorated with
small wooden medallions and this same ornament decorates the frieze under the tower
eaves. There are scroll brackets decorating the front and side gable projections.
The entire house sits on a fine cut stone foundation.

Windows are primarily single-pane double-hung sashes with wood surrounds decorated
with small wooden medallions and stylized flowers. A simple porch covers the front
entrance. It may have replaced the original porch. A sun room, probably made by
enclosing a porch, sits at the northeast corner of the house.

John Wattawa was a native of Milwaukee and came to Kewaunee shortly after his birth
in 1860. After high school, he became principal of a nearby high school before he
was even 21. In that year, he was elected county superintendent of Kewaunee County
schools and remained in that position for five years. In the meantime, he studied
law and began practicing in 1887. He became active in politics and was mayor of
Kewaunee for two terms. He also was involved in business interests; and in 1893 he
became deputy collector for the U. S. Customs Bureau. Wattawa died in 1904, but his
widow continued to own this house until 1915.



1017 Milwaukee St.
George & Maud Duvall House
1900

This two-story Queen Anne house sits on a cut stone foundation and has a combination
hip and gable roof. It is sided with clapboards and is trimmed with horizontal and
vertical boards. A two-story bay projects from the main front gable of the house.
Windows are primarily average-sized single-light double-hung sashes. A veranda
spans the front and wraps around the south side of the house. It is supported by
simple turned posts. The main entrance is marked by a pediment decorated with wood
carvings. Above the entrance is a small balcony with a spool and spindle
balustrade.

This house was built for George and Maud Duvall. George Duvall was the son of
prominent businessman, Joseph Duvall. He operated his father's grain company and
store, and the Duvall Farm Company, a corporate farm. He was also a director in
several other Kewaunee businesses. George and Maud Duvall lived here until 1912,
when Joseph Duvall died and George took over his father's Italianate mansion at 815
Milwaukee St. From 1913 to the 1930s, this was the home of "Captain" Algie and
Sarah Alexander. Alexander was a carpenter and grain buyer.



1203 Dodge St.
Wenzel Kieweg House
1894

1213 Dodge St.
Anton & Harriett Kieweg House
1902

These two Queen Anne houses were built for two members of the Kieweg family, local
merchants who developed this part of Dodge Street. The Wenzel Kieweg house, built
first in 1894, is a Queen Anne design with an intersecting gable roofline, a high
cut stone foundation, clapboard siding, panels of decorative boards, and gables
shingled in an octagonal pattern. The 45-degree angles of the front and south side
gable projections are decorated with cut-out scroll brackets.

Window openings on the Wenzel Kieweg house are largely two-over-two or single-light
double-hung sashes. Two fine stained glass panels decorate the large picture-type
windows of the front and south side gable-roofed projections. The front entrance is
a wood-paneled door covered by a small entry porch with turned posts, brackets, and
a spool-and-spindle frieze. The large south side entrance to the house is covered
with a curved porch with Tuscan columns and a spool-and-spindle balustrade.

The diminutive Anton & Harriett Kieweg house is a one and one-half story house with
a steeply-pitched hip roof covered with wood shingles. Projecting from the roof are
several hip-roof dormers and a large gable. The dormers and the gable are sided in
an octagonal pattern. Under the wide eaves of the dormers and the main roof are
curved exposed rafter ends that mimic brackets or modillions. The house sits on a
high cut stone foundation and is sided with clapboards.
The windows are primarily single-light double-hung sashes. There are a few multilight
windows and in the dormers the upper sash of the window is divided with
muntins in a criss-cross pattern. This same design is used in narrow transoms that
decorate the picture-type first floor windows. A veranda extends across the front
wall all the way around the south side of the house. It is supported by plain square
posts and has a simple balustrade.

Wenzel Kieweg, and his son, Anton, were the owners of one of Kewaunee's most
prominent businesses. Wenzel Kieweg was a partner with Fred Poser and Roland Bach
in the Bach, Kieweg & Poser Company that operated a general and dry goods store that
located in Kewaunee in 1893. Wenzel's sons, Anton and John, were also involved in
the business that occupied a large building in Kewaunee's downtown. In 1915, Poser
and Bach resigned from the firm and Charles Peters entered the business. It was
then known as the Kieweg-Peters Company until the 1920s, when John Kieweg died and
Anton Kieweg retired. Anton Kieweg was also a long-time member of the Kewaunee
elementary school board of education and a director of the State Bank of Kewaunee.

Wenzel Kieweg owned the house at 1203 Dodge Street until 1908. It was then the home
of his son, John Kieweg and his wife, Mary, until 1926. Anton Kieweg owned the
house at 1213 Dodge St. from its date of construction until well into the 1960s.



1018 Dodge St.
Theo & Harriett Borgman House
1904

This late Oueen Anne house features a combination hip and gable roof with two brick
corbelled chimneys and clapboard siding. Elaborate gable braces in a fancy cut-out
pattern decorate the gable peaks and a two-story gable ell that projects from the
front of the house. The windows of the house are almost all single-light doublehung
sashes decorated with simple cornice lintels. The flat-roofed entrance
vestibule is enclosed and is topped with a spool-and-spindle balustrade. A small
side entrance is topped with a shed-roofed overhang and has a small spool-and-spindle
balustrade along the steps to the entry door.



903 Dodge St.
John & Augusta Dishmaker House
c.1900

The Dishmaker house is an American Foursquare house that has details that suggest
the Prairie and Queen Anne styles. The two-and one-half story house has a steep
hipped roof with hipped roof dormers. The dormers have wide, flared, overhanging
eaves decorated with exposed rafter ends and are covered with scalloped shingles.
On the south side of the house, the dormer has flat-arched windows. The north side
dormer shelters a shallow second-story oriel that is accented with scalloped
shingles and sash windows decorated with a leaded glass transom. The front dormer
projects downward to the second story. It, too, is covered with scalloped wood
shingles. This dormer has a round-arched opening and a round-arched window with
decorative muntins, a wood panel, and a panel of leaded glass. Two two-story
polygonal bays project from the southeast corner and the south wall of the house.

The house is covered with clapboards and sits on a fine cut stone foundation. Most
of the window openings are single-light double-hung sashes of various sizes. There
are two large picture-type windows sheltered by the front porch. The wood and glass
paneled entry door is also covered by the porch that has a steep hip roof supported
by two groups of three Tuscan columns and a spool and spindle balustrade.

Tax rolls for this house are inconclusive as to an exact date of construction, but
suggest a date around 1900. This date corresponds to the transitional design of
this house. John Dishmaker was a merchant and investor in the Bach, Kieweg and
Poser Company store, one of Kewaunee's most important commercial businesses. He,
and his wife, Augusta, lived in the house until Dishmaker's death in 1921. Then
their daughter, Edna, lived in the house with her husband, until 1956, when she sold
the house to Charles Kasal.



803 Milwaukee St.
Otto and Margurite Bruemmer House
1914

This fine Prairie style-influenced American Foursquare house has a low-pitched hip
roof with hipped-roofed dormers. These dormers each have a group of three small
windows with divided lights. The dormers and the second story of the house are
covered with shingles. The remainder of the house is clad with clapboards. Windows
of the house are primarily six-over-one light double-hung sashes placed in twos,
threes, or fours on the house. In front of the house is a small terrace with a
fieldstone balustrade. A modern hip-roofed one-story entrance vestibule now
shelters the main entrance of modern entry doors and a picture window. A large
masonry fireplace chimney sits on the south wall of the house. The enclosed
entrance, terrace, and chimney are not original to the house.

This house was built for Otto and Margurite Bruemmer. Otto Bruemmer was the
president of the Farmers and Merchants State Bank, founded in 1911. In 1933, this
bank and the Dairyman's State Bank merged as the Union State Bank, and Otto Bruemmer
became a director and held this position until 1966, when he died. Tax Rolls
indicate that the Bruemmers owned this house until the 1940s.



1003 Milwaukee St.
Norman & Carrie Leyse House
1914

This two-story Prairie style-influenced American Foursquare house features a lowpitched
hip roof with a shed-roofed dormer and wide, overhanging eaves. Under the
eaves is a broad band clad in square shingles punctuated by vertical boards and the
upper lights of single-light double-hung sashes. This configuration suggests the
horizontal bands of windows often seen in Prairie Style houses. The square plan of
the house is interrupted by a shallow polygonal two-story bay on the south wall and
a one-story bay on the north wall.

The windows on the first story have single-light double-hung sashes, and there are
some smaller, irregularly shaped windows also punctuating the walls of the house.
The veranda that wraps around the northeast side of the house features a low-pitched
hip roof, Tuscan columns that are grouped in threes at the corners, and a wood and
glass entry door decorated with sidelights. The veranda is enclosed with wood
panels made up of vertical boards in a wainscotting effect and large single-pane
windows topped with eight or ten-light transoms. There are lattice-like panels in
between the stone piers of the porch base. A matching garage also sits on the
property.

Norman Leyse was an executive with his family-owned company, the Leyse Aluminum
Company. The company began in 1903 in Two Rivers, Wisconsin, just south of
Kewaunee. Albert and Norman Leyse began the company that manufactured aluminum
signs and other related products. In 1905, the company moved to Kewaunee. Shortly
after the firm was founded, two more Leyse brothers joined the company. During
World War I, the firm converted to manufacturing aluminum cookware, and a new plant
was erected in Kewaunee. By 1938, Leyse Aluminum Company employed 90 workers.
After World War II, the company continued to manufacture specialized cookware and
other aluminum products. In 1983, the company merged with General Housewares
Corporation, and in that year, the company was employing more than 230 workers with
an annual payroll of over two million dollars.



805 Dodge St.
John & Marie Borgman House
1909

This large two and one-half story Colonial Revival style house has a horizontal form
and massing that also suggests the Prairie style. The house has a rectangular plan
with a moderately-pitched gable roof that has flared returned eaves. A large,
semicircular-arched dormer projects from the front of the roof. The arched shape of the
multiple-light triple window group in the gable is accented with a strip of wood
shingles. The house is covered with clapboards and there are wood shingles in the
gable ends. Window groups that are identical to those in the dormer are also placed
in each gable end. On the north side of the house, this window group sits above a
second story oriel that is decorated with Tuscan columns, an entablature, and a
shallow balconet that is supported by brackets and modillions.

Other windows of the house consist of sashes with a single lower light and multiple
upper lights. The enclosed porch features eight-over-one light sashes. The porch
spans the entire front wall and is supported by plain columns with Ionic capitals
that sit on cut stone pedestals. The porch entrance is decorated with a transom and
sidelights. Above this entry is a tripartite window accented with round columns and
square pilasters.

John Borgman was born in Green Bay, but came as a child to Kewaunee with his family.
He was locally educated and studied for three months at a business college in
Milwaukee. He learned his father's trade as a carpenter and builder and began a
lumber mill and lumber yard business in Kewaunee in 1881. He was also active in
several other businesses in Kewaunee, as well as holding a number of local political
offices. Borgman owned this house until 1922, when he presumably died. Mrs. Marie
Borgman, his wife, continued to own the property until at least 1950.



205 Rose St.
Dana Dishmaker House
1919

This simple Colonial Revival house is two stories in height with a moderately pitched
gable roof. The house is covered with clapboards and features six-over-six
or four-over-four light double-hung sashes placed regularly in the building walls.

The main entrance to the house is decorated with sidelights and an elliptically
arched transom. Covering the entry is a gable-roofed entrance porch withy returned
eaves and a frieze, all supported by two Tuscan columns. A flat-roofed, one-story
sun porch projects from the east wall. It has divided light windows topped with
divided light transoms. Above the roof is a plain balustrade.



804 Milwaukee St.
Anton Dishmaker House
1927

This two and one-half story brown brick Colonial Revival style house has a
moderately-pitched gable roof with returned eaves and dormers. The dormers are
covered with square shingles and their openings are filled with small eight-over-one
light double-hung sashes. Other windows of the house are larger eight-over-one and
ten-over-one-light sashes. Some are grouped in threes. The main entrance to the
house is covered with an entry porch with a gable roof, a full pediment at the
front, and a frieze, all supported by Tuscan columns. There is also a plain
balustrade. A modern garage is attached to the house.

Anton Dishmaker was a partner with his brothers Fred and William in the Dishmaker
Brothers Garage. They started their business in Kewaunee in 1896. They dealt in
agricultural machines, sewing machines, organs, and bicycles. In 1910, they became
a Buick automobile dealership but still sold agricultural implements until 1953.
Anton Dishmaker owned this house well into the 1930s.



1104 Milwaukee St.
C. G. Campbell House
1928-29

This fine Georgian Revival style house is constructed of red brick and has two
stories and a steeply-pitched gable roof. The cornice is decorated with modillions
and there are cornice returns at each gable end. The windows of the house are all
six-over-six light double-hung sashes, regularly placed in the walls of the house.
They are decorated with panelled wood shutters that are painted white. A multilight
tripartite window sits above the main entrance on the second floor. The main
entrance is decorated with sidelights and a transom. It is covered with a semicircular
portico that features an iron balustrade on the roof, a wide frieze, and
large Tuscan columns. A garage is attached to the northeast corner of the house.

C. G. Campbell was the general manager of the Kewaunee Manufacturing Company. The
company was founded in 1903. By 1927, it was Kewaunee's largest industry, making
laboratory furniture, particularly on a special order basis. When Campbell was in
charge, the factory employed 325 workers and was the largest factory of its type in
North America. The factory made good use of the nearby lumber forests of northern
Wisconsin. Unfortunately the plant closed in 1939 when the company moved its work
to a Michigan plant. Campbell owned this house well into the 1940s.



1122 Milwaukee St.
Leo & Vera Bruemmer House
1928-29

This large two-story Tudor Revival-French Eclectic style house is clad in brown
brick and accented with stucco and false half-timbering. The very steeply-pitched
hip roof is highest over the main part of the house and drops lower over the
southern wing and the northern attached garage. The stucco covering occurs
primarily on the northern portion of the house and it is accented with vertical
boards and two round-arched multi-light windows. The second story of the southern
end of the house has brickwork panels in basket weave and herringbone patterns that
are framed with false half-timbering.

Most of the windows of the house are six-over-six or four-over-four light doublehung sashes.
On the first story they are decorated with flat brick arches. The one
and one-half story entry pavilion has a steeply-pitched jerkinhead roof, and an
eight-light window sits in the gable peak. The paneled wood entry door is accented
with an irregular stone surround, segmental arch, and keystone.



1020 Milwaukee St.
Thomas Klemish House
1931

The second Tudor Revival-French Eclectic style house in this district is the Klemish
house, constructed of tan brick and accented with stone and stucco. The twostory house
has an L plan. The main block has a steeply-pitched jerkinhead roof,
while the ell has a long gable roof. Large shed-roofed dormers project from the ell
roof. They are covered with both brick and stucco. Windows are many and varied.
They include sashes with multiple lights, casements with transoms, and sashes with
round arches. Above the main entrance is a stone balcony with a decorative wroughtiron
balustrade. The recessed main entrance sits within a round-arched opening
faced with cut stone.



1119 Dodge St.
Rudolph Pilgrim House
1931

This variation on the Tudor Revival style is an example of a "Cotswold Cottage."
The house has a very steeply-pitched complex hip roof with a hip-roof dormer
projecting from the front of the house. Both the walls and the roof of this house
are covered with square shingles. Windows in the house are largely six-over-one
light double-hung sashes. A tripartite window group on the first story features
single panes topped with divided lights. The entrance is undecorated except for
large shutters. An arcaded wing wall leads to the north side entrance.



900 Dodge St.
Kewaunee Public School
1914-15, 1936, 1956, 1965

The old Kewaunee Public School, now known as Marquette Middle School, is a simple
Classical Revival institutional building. The original section of the school was
built in 1914-15 and is a two-story red brick building. The parapet roof is
accented by a stone cornice and a stone belt course separates the first and basement
stories. Windows in this section were originally large single pane sashes, many set
in threes and regularly placed in the building walls. These openings have now been
partially closed and new, smaller sashes installed. The main entrance to the old
building is accented by a two-story frontispiece of red brick accented with stone.
The entry doors are modern and the transom above them has been covered. The rear
entry pavilion in this portion of the building is two stories in height with three
doors accented with a brick and stone frontispiece.

In 1936, an office and gymnasium addition was made to the south end of the school.
This addition was built of red brick and stone accents that reflected the building's
original style. The addition features windows that were originally similar to those
of the main block, but are now partially enclosed; a large, one-story bay on the
south wall of the first floor; large round-arched gymnasium windows that have been
closed; and a rear gymnasium entrance consisting of three entry doors topped with
round stone arches.

In 1956, a cafeteria, band room, and classrooms were added, and additional locker
rooms and classrooms were built in 1965. These additions, while simple, were also
made to harmonize with the style and construction materials of the original
building. In 1974 and 1975, the building was remodeled and modernized. The old
Kewaunee Public School housed all grades until an elementary school was built in
1955. At that time, the building became a high school only. When the new high
school was built in 1968, the school was renamed Marquette School, serving a "middle
school" population.



